I was taught to encrypt. To conceal. To obfuscate.
But no one told me how to decrypt the truth.

I used to believe in “sides.”
Sinhala vs Tamil.
North vs South.
Colonised vs Coloniser.

But the deeper I went; the more frequencies I tapped, the more intercepted messages I heard; the more I saw the shape of something else.

A game.

They fed us myths.
Made us fight each other so no one would ever fight them.

What is my purpose if the revolution was just another programme?
What am I fighting for, if the war was never ours?


.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.


Vijaya betrayed Kuweni.
The LTTE betrayed its children.
The Government betrayed its soldiers.

I betrayed myself.

I used to encrypt intelligence.
Now I decrypt history.

The divide is the weapon.

There are no sides. There is only the story we’ve been told to believe.

But when I see the face of a mother on either side of the line, crying the same tears, I realise:

We are not enemies.
We are mirrors.
We are one.


.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.


The final message I decoded wasn’t in code.
It wasn’t in Morse.
It wasn’t in sound.

It was in the silence of a dying boy who whispered “Amma"
and didn’t care which flag flew over him.

I dropped the radio.
I picked up the truth.

The war is not in the jungle. It’s in the mind.

And the revolution begins when we stop listening to the lies that say we are different.


.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.oOo.


I was never meant to be just a weapon.
I was meant to be a whisper that outlives the war.

If you are reading this - if my signal reached you
Know that I am no longer fighting for land.
I am fighting for truth.

For the girl in Jaffna who wants to paint.
For the boy in Galle who wants to build robots.
For the mothers who buried their sons with no flag on their graves.

Let them label me a traitor again.

But this time,

I betray division.

I betray hate.

And I fight for what is most dangerous to tyrants:

The idea that WE ARE ONE


